README.md, before:

# jira-to-slack [![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/int128/jira-to-slack.svg?style=shield)](https://circleci.com/gh/int128/jira-to-slack)

This is a Slack and Mattermost integration for notifying Jira events.
It is written in Go and ready on Docker, Cloud Run, App Engine and Lambda.


## Examples

### Slack

<img width="680" alt="jira-to-slack" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/321266/36666061-c14e272e-1b2c-11e8-9e93-1f8f2857cbe0.png">


### Mattermost

<img width="638" alt="jira-to-mattermost" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/321266/42192807-24339c98-7ea6-11e8-98b1-14b558c0d8bb.png">


## Getting Started

### 1. Setup Slack/Mattermost

Create an Incoming Webhook on your [Slack](https://my.slack.com/services/new/incoming-webhook) or [Mattermost](https://docs.mattermost.com/developer/webhooks-incoming.html).

### 2. Setup Jira

Create a [Webhook](https://developer.atlassian.com/server/jira/platform/webhooks/) on your Jira cloud or server.
Set the URL of the Webhook as follows:

```
https://jira-to-slack.appspot.com/?webhook=https://hooks.slack.com/YOUR_HOOK
```

You can add the following query parameters:

Name | Value | Default | Example
-----|-------|---------|--------
`webhook` | Slack/Mattermost Webhook URL | Mandatory | `https://hooks.slack.com/YOUR_HOOK`
`username` | BOT username | - | `JIRA`
`icon` | BOT icon emoji or URL | - | `:speech_baloon:` or `https://.../jira.png`
`dialect` | API dialect | `slack` | `slack` or `mattermost`
`debug` | Dump Jira and Slack messages to console | `0` | `0` or `1`

For example,

<img width="752" alt="jira-webhook-setup" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/321266/42193983-a4c5fd32-7eac-11e8-979d-ae8103ae2672.png">

You can deploy jira-to-slack to your server as well.
See the later section for details.

### 3. Test notification

Create a ticket on your Jira and a message will be sent to your Slack/Mattermost.
You can turn on debug logs by setting the query parameter `debug=1`.


## Deploy to your server

### Standalone

Download the latest release and run the command:

```sh
./jira-to-slack
```

It binds port 3000 by default.
You can set the port by `PORT` environment variable.

```sh
PORT=8080 ./jira-to-slack
```

### Docker

Run the image.

```sh
docker run --rm -p 3000:3000 int128/jira-to-slack
```

### Cloud Run

You can deploy the image `gcr.io/jira-to-slack/jira-to-slack` to Google Cloud Run.

### App Engine

You can deploy the application to Google App Engine.

```sh
# Install SDK
brew cask install google-cloud-sdk
gcloud components install app-engine-go

# Run
make -C appengine run

# Deploy
gcloud app deploy --project=jira-to-slack appengine/app.yaml
```

### Lambda

You can deploy the application to AWS Lambda.

```sh
# Run
make -C lambda run

# Deploy
make -C lambda deploy SAM_S3_BUCKET_NAME=YOUR_BUCKET_NAME
```

You need to create a S3 bucket in the same region before deploying.


## How it works

### Triggers

`jira-to-slack` sends a message to the Slack channel on the following triggers:

- Someone created an issue.
- Someone commented to an issue.
- Someone assigned an issue.
- Someone updated summary or description of an issue.
- Someone deleted an issue.

### Mentions

`jira-to-slack` sends mentions to reporter and assignee of the issue.

If the issue or comment has mentions (Slack style `@foo` or JIRA style `[~foo]`), `jira-to-slack` sends the mentions as well.


## Other solutions

[JIRA Mattermost Webhook Bridge](https://github.com/vrenjith/jira-matter-bridge). Great work. This is almost perfect but notifies many events so it may be noisy.

[Mattermost official JIRA Webhook Plugin](https://docs.mattermost.com/integrations/jira.html). This is still beta and in progress. Currently this does not notify comment.


## Contribution

This is an open source software licensed under Apache License 2.0.
Feel free to open your issues or pull requests.


### Development

Start the server:

```sh
make
./jira-to-slack
```

### E2E Test

You can send actual payloads of actual Jira events by the following script:

```sh
# Slack
SLACK_WEBHOOK="https://hooks.slack.com/xxx&username=JIRA&icon=https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/GkgChJMixx9JAmoUi1majtfpjg1Ra86gZR0GCehJfVcOGQI7Ict_TVafXCtJniVn3R0" ./pkg/formatter/testdata/post_jira_events.sh

# Mattermost
SLACK_WEBHOOK="https://mattermost.example.com/hooks/xxx&username=JIRA&icon=https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/GkgChJMixx9JAmoUi1majtfpjg1Ra86gZR0GCehJfVcOGQI7Ict_TVafXCtJniVn3R0&dialect=mattermost" ./pkg/formatter/testdata/post_jira_events.sh
```

Commit message:

Fix response for Lambda for ALB target group (#7)

README.md, after:

# jira-to-slack [![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/int128/jira-to-slack.svg?style=shield)](https://circleci.com/gh/int128/jira-to-slack)

This is a Slack and Mattermost integration for notifying Jira events.
It is written in Go and ready on Docker, Cloud Run, App Engine and Lambda.


## Examples

### Slack

<img width="680" alt="jira-to-slack" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/321266/36666061-c14e272e-1b2c-11e8-9e93-1f8f2857cbe0.png">


### Mattermost

<img width="638" alt="jira-to-mattermost" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/321266/42192807-24339c98-7ea6-11e8-98b1-14b558c0d8bb.png">


## Getting Started

### 1. Setup Slack/Mattermost

Create an Incoming Webhook on your [Slack](https://my.slack.com/services/new/incoming-webhook) or [Mattermost](https://docs.mattermost.com/developer/webhooks-incoming.html).

### 2. Setup Jira

Create a [Webhook](https://developer.atlassian.com/server/jira/platform/webhooks/) on your Jira cloud or server.
Set the URL of the Webhook as follows:

```
https://jira-to-slack.appspot.com/?webhook=https://hooks.slack.com/YOUR_HOOK
```

You can add the following query parameters:

Name | Value | Default | Example
-----|-------|---------|--------
`webhook` | Slack/Mattermost Webhook URL | Mandatory | `https://hooks.slack.com/YOUR_HOOK`
`username` | BOT username | - | `JIRA`
`icon` | BOT icon emoji or URL | - | `:speech_baloon:` or `https://.../jira.png`
`dialect` | API dialect | `slack` | `slack` or `mattermost`
`debug` | Dump Jira and Slack messages to console | `0` | `0` or `1`

For example,

<img width="752" alt="jira-webhook-setup" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/321266/42193983-a4c5fd32-7eac-11e8-979d-ae8103ae2672.png">

You can deploy jira-to-slack to your server as well.
See the later section for details.

### 3. Test notification

Create a ticket on your Jira and a message will be sent to your Slack/Mattermost.
You can turn on debug logs by setting the query parameter `debug=1`.


## Deploy to your server

### Standalone

Download the latest release and run the command:

```sh
./jira-to-slack
```

It binds port 3000 by default.
You can set the port by `PORT` environment variable.

```sh
PORT=8080 ./jira-to-slack
```

### Docker

Run the image.

```sh
docker run --rm -p 3000:3000 int128/jira-to-slack
```

### Cloud Run

You can deploy the image `gcr.io/jira-to-slack/jira-to-slack` to Google Cloud Run.

### App Engine

You can deploy the application to Google App Engine.

```sh
# Install SDK
brew cask install google-cloud-sdk
gcloud components install app-engine-go

# Run
make -C appengine run

# Deploy
gcloud app deploy --project=jira-to-slack appengine/app.yaml
```

### Lambda

You can deploy the application to AWS Lambda and API Gateway.

```sh
# Run
make -C lambda run

# Deploy
make -C lambda deploy SAM_S3_BUCKET_NAME=YOUR_BUCKET_NAME
```

You need to create a S3 bucket in the same region before deploying.

If you want to deploy the application to AWS Lambda and ALB Target Group,
you need to change the request and response types as follows:

```sh
sed -i \
  -e s/APIGatewayProxyRequest/ALBTargetGroupRequest/g \
  -e s/APIGatewayProxyResponse/ALBTargetGroupResponse/g \
  lambda/main.go
```


## How it works

### Triggers

`jira-to-slack` sends a message to the Slack channel on the following triggers:

- Someone created an issue.
- Someone commented to an issue.
- Someone assigned an issue.
- Someone updated summary or description of an issue.
- Someone deleted an issue.

### Mentions

`jira-to-slack` sends mentions to reporter and assignee of the issue.

If the issue or comment has mentions (Slack style `@foo` or JIRA style `[~foo]`), `jira-to-slack` sends the mentions as well.


## Other solutions

[JIRA Mattermost Webhook Bridge](https://github.com/vrenjith/jira-matter-bridge). Great work. This is almost perfect but notifies many events so it may be noisy.

[Mattermost official JIRA Webhook Plugin](https://docs.mattermost.com/integrations/jira.html). This is still beta and in progress. Currently this does not notify comment.


## Contribution

This is an open source software licensed under Apache License 2.0.
Feel free to open your issues or pull requests.


### Development

Start the server:

```sh
make
./jira-to-slack
```

### E2E Test

You can send actual payloads of actual Jira events by the following script:

```sh
# Slack
SLACK_WEBHOOK="https://hooks.slack.com/xxx&username=JIRA&icon=https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/GkgChJMixx9JAmoUi1majtfpjg1Ra86gZR0GCehJfVcOGQI7Ict_TVafXCtJniVn3R0" ./pkg/formatter/testdata/post_jira_events.sh

# Mattermost
SLACK_WEBHOOK="https://mattermost.example.com/hooks/xxx&username=JIRA&icon=https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/GkgChJMixx9JAmoUi1majtfpjg1Ra86gZR0GCehJfVcOGQI7Ict_TVafXCtJniVn3R0&dialect=mattermost" ./pkg/formatter/testdata/post_jira_events.sh
```
